If you want to learn how to make money
on YouTube, then you are in the right
place. Because in today's episode, I'm
interviewing world-renowned YouTube
expert Sean Cannell. With over a decade
of experience personally running
multiple channels with more than 1
million subscribers and being the
driving force strategy and coach behind
dozens, if not hundreds, if not
thousands of channels with over 100k
subscribers, Sean is truly the go-to
expert when it comes to YouTube. And in
today's episode, he's going to break
down the unique opportunity that exists
in 2026. Because arguably more than ever
before in the history of YouTube, small
channels today can make serious income.
And so in today's episode, I'm going to
ask him to explain exactly how this is
possible and answer some of the
hard-hitting questions like which niches
are best and which different kinds of
YouTube channels can make more money.
Additionally, I'm going to ask him how
you can get started and what your very
first YouTube video should be. So
whether you already have a YouTube
channel and you're trying to gain your
next thousand subscribers or you're
thinking about starting a YouTube
channel and you want to gain your first
thousand subscribers or most of all, you
want to learn how to make $50 per day
from your YouTube channel without even
needing 1,000 subscribers, then buckle
up because you're in the right place.
And one last thing before we get into
the full interview, I'm going to do what
Sean told me to do, which is that I'm
going to ask you to subscribe. Here on
this channel every single week I post
free educational videos giving you the
latest strategies, advice, and ideas for
growing your small business on social
media. So if that's what you're into,
don't forget to hit that subscribe
button and without further ado, here's
the full interview. For the last few
years, I've been using Notion to
basically organize my entire life. It's
so much more than just a to-do list app,
it's truly a one-stop shop for
organizing any area of your life or
business. And it's not just great at
organization, it's also great at
automations as well. There's so many
complex things that you can do and build
that can happen automatically and
instantly within Notion. And now for the
first time, they are introducing Notion
AI agents. The new Notion custom agents
will allow you to automatically perform
advanced tasks without you even having
to lift a finger. For example, I built a
Notion custom agent that automatically
pulls the link to any reel that I have
posted, and then it pulls out the text
that I say or the text on the screen in
the first few seconds of the reel.
Basically, it pulls out my hook. And
then it's able to look at how that post
performed and compare it to the hook,
which allows me to see which hooks are
actually working so that I can reuse
them and tweak them for future reels.
Notion is an AI-powered connected
workspace for teams. Notion brings all
of your notes, docs, and projects into
one space that just works. It's
seamless, flexible, powerful, and with
AI built in, you spend less time
switching between different apps and
tools, and more time creating great
work. Now, with Notion's custom agents,
busy work that used to take hours, or
let's be honest, didn't really get done
at all, runs itself. The easiest way to
think about the difference between a
custom agent and normal AI is that
normal AI requires you as the human to
prompt it, but custom agents work for
you 24/7 behind the scenes without you
having to lift a finger. But, don't just
take my word for it. Notion is used by
more than half of Fortune 500 companies
and some of the fastest-growing
companies in the world, like OpenAI, the
company behind ChatGPT. Try custom
agents now at notion.com/byt.
That's all lowercase notion, n o t i o n
.com/byt
to try custom agents today. And when you
use my link, you're supporting our show.
Again, notion.com/byt.
Sean, welcome.
Brock, I'm so fired up to be on the
podcast with you today. Fired up to have
you. A lot of creators believe that you
need millions of views in order to make
any money on YouTube, and I want you to
start by dispelling that belief. Why is
that wrong?
Yeah, so the cool thing is you can make
big money on YouTube with a small
audience. And actually, I mean, uh this
might be new to some people, but there's
a famous article that many have probably
heard of before. It's called a thousand
true fans. And it's kind of the idea
that a small focused audience that
actually would transact with you in some
way for $100 a year. If you had a
thousand true fans, that's $100,000
a year. That'd be a six-figure income
off just a thousand people and just
$100. And you have an entire year to do
it. Meaning, it's actually about eight
bucks a month.
So, well Sean, where's that money coming
from if I started a YouTube channel or
any social media account? It's like,
well, if you have an affiliate link or
you're getting paid because YouTube will
eventually pay you for views or you even
have your own offer of some kind or
membership community or fan funding like
Patreon,
it that when you break down the math,
you actually see, okay, I don't need a
huge audience
to actually make significant money. And
so, that's one of the things we love
helping people with. And if you could
take it a little bit deeper, when you
position yourself right on YouTube
specifically,
um YouTube pays you eventually for views
and it's called RPM. It's how much
YouTube pays you for a thousand views.
And if you wanted to make like, let's
say,
uh
$50 a day, if you had a $5 RPM, which is
very common, you would need 10,000 views
a day.
Now, that's going to take a while to do,
but that actually sounds kind of
manageable. Not millions of views. Like
if your videos and your content you're
posting on YouTube is getting 10,000
views a day, you would actually get $50
from YouTube paying you for running ads
on those videos. And if you raise the
RPM, which is a conversation we could
have depending on how you position your
topic or your target audience,
um i- i- if your RPM's $10, it'd only be
5,000 views a day. If your RPM was $25,
it'd only be 2,000 views a day. Well
Sean, how do I raise my RPM? Well, when
you pick a niche like business or let's
say real estate, sometimes maybe if your
target audience is a little bit more
affluent. If you're helping women in
their 40s or women in their 50s, YouTube
can understand and advertisers can
understand or the the audience you're
getting in front of even with maybe
fitness advice or
uh skin care or these different types of
things.
So, you don't need big numbers, you need
the right strategy.
Got you. Got you. Makes sense. So, when
you're saying $50 a day even with like a
small channel, I know
you brought up the idea of a thousand
true fans. Does that mean
you need a thousand subscribers? Like,
how small are we talking here?
Yeah, so again, if we break down those
numbers, it's like it really depends on
what business are you in?
And I think when we think about social
media, building your tribe, you know, we
think about um are you in a get as many
views as possible and let YouTube pay
you for views?
Are you really promoting other products,
affiliate offers of some kind?
Are you do you have your own products or
services?
Um and
what business are you in? Are you in
group coaching, one-on-one coaching?
And are brands paying you? So, knowing
the business you're in is a critical
first question. Um if you wanted to earn
$50 a day, and let's say you had a $50
digital product, it's really as simple
as saying that you would only need to
sell one a day. Mhm. So, if you were
posting content online and on YouTube
and it got uh you posted a video that
got a hundred views
and 1% of that audience was like, "Oh, I
want to invest in whatever your you
know, fill in the blank." It could be
actually physical products or merch,
then only one individual purchasing that
would be, you know, that $50 a day. So,
that's kind of how I like to think about
it that
um you know, Warren Buffett, the famous
investor, said
the
choice of boat that you pick is more
important than how hard you row. Mhm.
What does that mean? It was saying like
the vehicle that choose
the boat you choose to get in is more
important than actually how much energy
and effort you're putting in. So, I
think for listeners you would
strategically reverse engineer what
business am I actually in? What would be
the best way to Am I working so hard to
get views and often times for ad revenue
you need a lot more views like to make
good money. You need 10,000 views,
hundreds of thousands of views. It's
kind of less about subscribers. It's
actually how many views do your videos
get? You have a viral video it might pay
you 5, 10, $20,000 even if it's just a
one-off video and your channel's
monetized. But that's hard to do and
it's hard to go viral all the time. So,
I like to lean towards what's like a
predictable
business model that I can be in. And if
I'm going to be in brand deals and ad
revenue, I also might lean towards I
want to position myself in health and
supplements in some way cuz there could
be good big margins there. Who am I
partnering with? Am I doing direct
selling and do what I do that through
YouTube? That's all strategic question
of the business vehicle that you're
choosing
for positioning yourself on YouTube. Got
you. So, I want to I want to come back
to some of these topics and terms that
you brought up. But first I know
you keep talking about like picking the
right vehicle, picking the right boat
and and like even getting started like
choosing what vehicle, choosing what
business you're going to start out with.
And I know that pretty soon here you're
going to have a little challenge that
people can join to like actually get
them kick-started. Can you briefly
mention that?
Yeah, we're doing this event totally
free. It's called YouTube Growth Sprint
and it's three days and we are going
through how to start, how to grow. You
know, and a lot of people maybe have
already started a YouTube channel, but
maybe you kind of fell off, right? You
plateaued or you've ignored it for a few
years. So, if you want to restart your
channel or you're totally starting from
scratch and you're starting to see the
opportunity of getting into longer form
content we'll be learning about not just
why this is one of the best times to
start YouTube. We'll be talking about
the changes, but then giving people a a
framework for getting started quick and
some accountability, a kick in the pants
to like do the work, get videos posted.
So, yeah, it's called YouTube Growth
Sprint. It's going to be a lot of fun.
We also do some tech and giveaways. And
so, um it's coming up soon. Sweet. Yeah,
we'll definitely we'll link that up in
the in the show notes below. But, you
mentioned a few times uh this A word
being affiliate marketing or being an
affiliate. And I think there's a
different A word that people often times
think about with like getting paid by
YouTube, which is AdSense. People think
about, "Hey, like you brought up RPM.
How much do I get paid for views? How
much do I get paid for views on my reels
on Instagram? How much do I get paid for
views on a video on YouTube?" Um but,
what I often tell people on Instagram is
that that shouldn't necessarily be your
focus. I think there are much more
reliable, some people might say even
just flat out better ways to monetize.
So,
tell me more about affiliate marketing
and why and how that kind of fits into
this puzzle.
Yeah, you know, I think one of my
favorite examples and stories around
affiliate marketing is one of the people
in our community named Jacqueline. She
has a YouTube channel called the Wild
Floridian.
And so, she's uh loves gardening. She
just shoots simple YouTube videos on her
iPhone. She actually doesn't have a
fancy mic or anything. She just holds it
up selfie screen and kind of does a vlog
of um videos in her garden. And
sometimes she will literally do that.
She'll actually sometimes go 30 days and
kind of talk off the cuff, very
relational. But, other times she's done
strategic videos with the intent of
having money for the mission, building
her income, doing this full-time.
Uh eventually, she's able to, you know,
quit her job full-time from YouTube.
How? Well, one of the ways is affiliate
marketing. And so, the first step is to
identify basically an affiliate offer
that aligns well with your channel. And
there's like little things that can tie
into it. Um and so, she found these this
uh website that sells raised metal
garden beds that are resistant to rust
because of this humid you know humid
climate and whatnot. So finds this
website
reputable product um and I think she she
orders one. Not super expensive, tries
it out. This is amazing.
And she also and this is where you can
go deep with affiliate marketing. Let's
define it. Affiliate marketing is where
you get paid a commission when you
promote a product online. You log in,
they sign you up, you can have a custom
link and so when someone clicks your
link and buys that product, you get a
commission on that product. Maybe
individuals are familiar that you could
sign up for amazon.com
and earn anywhere from 1% to 10% on
different products Amazon sells.
Well, that's where affiliate marketing
gets interesting is because you start
thinking about the terms. You start You
start thinking about the total cart
value or the alignment with your
audience. So she finds out these raised
metal garden beds
tries them out see uh finds out that
these are really cool and also looks at
the terms on the website. It actually
starts at 10% but depending on the
amount of volume you do, it'll go up to
15 or 20%
and then they actually tell you on the
back end because when some of these
e-commerce websites they could be
selling anything, skin care, software,
whatever. They They will have affiliate
programs and learning about the terms so
what they actually said was, "Hey, if
you do a certain level of volume, we'll
raise you to 15% and if you do even more
volume, we'll raise you to 20% and the
average cart value when people come to
this website and they're really into
gardening and they want to get some
raised garden beds, it's actually $500.
Because they order three, you know, they
want free shipping. They Whatever it is.
That's the average.
So when she did this, she started to put
out some strategic videos meant to be
found solving this problem of what's the
best raised garden bed or you know,
raised garden bed 6 months later, how's
it holding up, product name, a couple
different strategic things and that's
some of the stuff we'll be going deep on
is how to identify these opportunities
and package the videos on our YouTube
growth sprint. But, you know, just for
listeners right now, you can do this.
What's the video that would attract
individuals that are having an intent to
solve that problem? They're researching
or comparing raised garden beds. Well,
here's the cool thing, Brock,
is sometimes YouTube can grow slow cuz
in the first year she earned $1,000
from putting a couple videos out with
her affiliate links in the description.
But, by the second year
she had earned $17,000 and then 3 years
into it over $55,000 collected in
commissions from this one website about
raised garden beds. She's posting about
three videos a year and each year a
little, you know, strategic, a different
angle.
And what I would call these, we call
these ranked videos. What's a ranked
video? It means it's a video that you
post today on YouTube that keeps getting
views
after you post it.
You know, maybe we've all we go to
YouTube looking for, you know, an answer
to a question or we're searching for
something. And you click on a video, it
might be 6 months old, it might be a
year old, it might be multiple years old
if it's still informational, if it's
still quality. Well, here's the powerful
thing, let's try to simplify.
So, Jacqueline figures out the perfect
affiliate product that ties into her
channel
for Florida or tropical gardening.
She makes strategic videos with her link
in the description
that people can click on, go to the
website and check out. And then she just
has kind of a disciplined approach where
this is not the only kind of content,
it's not like her channel became a
product review channel.
>> Mhm. But, it's a strategic piece of her
overall content strategy. So, she posts
a few videos a year, commits to that for
3 years, and has collected $55,000 on
the other side of continuing to talk
about it and some of those videos
ranking, meaning people keep watching
them whether she's posting new content
or not, whether she's on vacation, and
they're really set up to create true
passive income or automated income for
her, which is so powerful. Yeah,
absolutely. So, it sounds like step one
is is identifying like what kind of
vehicle, what kind of boat do I want to
have, what kind of uh you know, business
or lane am I going to be in? And then
you're kind of thinking about like what
products fit into at least in the
affiliate marketing sense, what products
fit into this business, what services,
what softwares, what things am I buying
that relate. But, my question is you
know, what at what stage do I start
making these affiliate videos? Should I
wait till I have a thousand subscribers?
Should I do it in my first ever video?
It sounds like I'm doing maybe a couple
of year, at least in Jaclyn's case, a
couple of year of these rank videos, but
at what point do I implement those?
Yeah, so the cool thing is that you can
monetize from day one when you use this
strategy.
To actually get monetized on YouTube,
you need a thousand subscribers and
4,000 hours of watch time within the
last 12 months.
Eventually, momentum on YouTube can
build to where those numbers can be
practical, but that can feel very
daunting and might be months out and you
know, sometimes individuals will say
that YouTube is a marathon and not a
sprint. It really is a compound
platform. I mean, you encourage people,
too. It's like we sometimes we go viral.
Individuals are going viral in your
community, ours as well,
but it's both and. It's like we might
have a breakout video, but it's also
just the disciplined approach of like
building your brand one post at a time,
being consistent, steadily growing your
following. And that compounds over not
just months, but even over compound
years. Okay, so saying that is
it's going to take time to be able to
turn on ads on your channel, but you
actually can do affiliate marketing from
day one. And I think it's a mindset
shift.
This isn't like pushy sales or anything.
When you pick the right video topic that
is aligned with the logical idea that
you're serving people by educating them
about something that's going to help
them,
then there isn't really any weird
friction there, and there's no reason
why day one you couldn't be putting out
that video. To be even more clear, it'd
be like um if you wanted to host an
online course, and you made a video.
Now, this might not be on brand for your
channel, but if you were to just think,
"Okay, I want to help people make a
decision cuz I've had to go on that
journey myself. So, I'm going to make a
video called uh ClickFunnels versus
Kajabi, Teachable versus Thinkific."
Like the Then you think about this, the
intent of the person watching that
video,
it they're not like feeling sold to.
They're you're being educated about two
different options. They're already at
that point in like their journey by even
clicking on that. Mhm. So, if you were
to say, you know, "Three supplements
that have boosted my energy," it's
logical for the end user, "What are the
supplements? And could you please put a
link to the supplements Yeah.
>> in the description?" Um you're really
not selling at all, you're serving, but
what's cool is you can earn a commission
in the process. So, what if that's a
It's kind of exciting because you can
serve
and really make an impact on people
while actually monetizing in the
process, and it becomes a win-win-win.
Ethical affiliate marketing
really is like an economic stimulus
package. It helps these really cool the
brands themselves that have a
life-changing product. Talk about So, it
could be a probiotic, right? Some kind
of supplement, something that's changing
people's lives. But they have a company
they want to grow and get the word out.
And then you've got you who you are or
you've got the end user who like when
they get a product that solves a problem
for them, helping them have more energy,
feel better if we're talking about
supplements. And then you in the middle,
you're trying to monetize your mission.
You're starting a a side hustle. You're
growing your online business. You're
bolting on an additional income stream.
Everybody wins when you're educating
a spec- you know, it's affiliate pro-
affiliate means a product or a service.
So, when you position videos that
educate people about these great
products and services that you would
like lovingly recommend to your mother,
brother, father, siblings, friends. Hey,
what have you been using? Your skin is
glowing lately. You know, you're not
going to not tell them. You're like,
"Oh, I'm so pumped. Let me tell you
about this." And so, when you do it
right, it's just such a cool way to earn
extra income. It can grow into big
income, and everybody wins in the
process. As someone who cooks about 95%
of their meals at home, and know that's
not an exaggeration, usually the only
meal that Tay and I eat out each week is
our sushi Saturday. What we eat, what we
prepare, it matters a lot to us. And
that's why I'm so excited to introduce
you to our newest sponsor, HelloFresh.
HelloFresh allows you to choose between
more than 100 recipes every single week,
including cuisines from all around the
world, and bigger portions that satisfy
everyone. Over 35 of those weekly
recipes are high-protein recipes, which
fires me up, and it allows me to feel
great because I know that I'm eating
wholesome ingredients, like sustainably
sourced seafood, and 100% antibiotic and
hormone-free chicken. And of course,
most important of all is how it tastes,
and let me tell you, it actually tastes
really good. This helps me be a better
business owner, because I'm able to eat
meals that taste good and help me feel
satisfied. I don't have to spend as much
time thinking or prepping each meal, and
I can make sure that I'm hitting my
protein goals in the process. Go to
t10fm
to get 10 free meals, plus a free
Zwilling knife, which is a $144.99
value on your third box. This offer is
only valid while supplies last. Free
meals applied at discount on your first
box for new subscribers only, and varies
by plan. Yeah, I love that. I mean, my
first venture into making money online
was affiliate marketing. I had a
friend's company, and he sold like
reusable water bottles back in the day
before Stanley was what Stanley is now,
and I promoted those, and I talked about
those, and I loved this water bottle,
and I'm reusing it, and there was like a
good purpose behind it and to your point
I got a little kickback. But you
mentioned something earlier that I
didn't really think about when I was
first getting started and I think a lot
of people don't even consider, which is
software. Like we think about okay, you
know, if I'm in like the gardening niche
I could sell like gardening tools and
you know, raised garden beds. But you
mentioned software and so can you talk
to me a little bit more about how you
can be an affiliate for a software
company and like
what would the advantage be to SAS or
software affiliate marketing?
Yeah, that's a great question because if
we go back to thinking about how could
you earn let's say $50 a day and that's
you know,
and who here listening wants an extra
$50 a day? I'd raise my hand for that.
Or who here wants to start making their
first $50 a day?
So you could
think about the RPM, the CPM of a video
and try to get monetized, but you're
also still waiting for that. You're
growing your YouTube channel. You could
think about affiliate marketing and for
$50 a day you could ask yourself this
question. If you're earning $10 per sale
and five people per day click on your
link
and make a purchase, then that would be
five sales a day, that'd be $50
a day. And so simple math, if
the product costs
$500,
if the product costs $50 and you earned
10% you'd earned $5 * 5
forgive me Brock, probably * 10. So
whatever it is. Yeah.
Like like the amount of money and and so
that's where you're asking yourself
here's the framework. It's like what's
the price point of the product and then
also what's your percentage?
So that's always two big questions to
ask with affiliate marketing. So
bringing it all the way back, that could
be any product, a hard good, etc. But
it's also interesting because often
times on Amazon it might be like 4% or
2% and then how expensive is the
product? So then we bring up software.
Software is one of my favorites because
a lot of times software is expensive to
make. There are developers behind it,
whatever company lost launched the
software. But, there also is margin
there. And what you'll see is software
companies will oftentimes they'll give
you 20%, 30%, 50%.
And so, depending on what that software
is, step one
is if you do get 50% of a $50 a month
software, that's $25.
But, then the second thing, Brock, is a
lot of times these software offers will
give you continuity. Now, what's
continuity?
It's that not just the month that that
software is being sold, but it's the
fact that if that person stays
subscribed, you get paid every single
month from that software.
So, this is interesting because, you
know, in B2B like in business, we might
think about like social media management
tools or
um, you know, CRMs or even financial
opportunities and different things. But,
if you could think about apps in
general, subscription services for
meditation, for relationships, for
different like
digital software as a service. It could
be an app. It could be a website. Um,
and you know, we teach YouTube at our
company. That's why we're doing a
YouTube growth event. And um, one of our
favorite softwares for serious YouTube
creators is called VidIQ.
And VidIQ, it does a bunch of different
things for you, but I'm to use it as a
case study of something that's really
aligned with the fact we teach YouTube.
And it's a YouTube optimization software
and analytics, etc.
Um, we've been doing this for years and
our brand has grown quite large, but I
want to say we earn something like
anywhere between $18,000 and $22,000 a
month from that one software as a
service
because lots of people have signed up,
they love it, they stick with it,
and it's a compound of all of those
individuals every month when they get
billed, then we also get a percentage of
um of that. So, back to the vehicle, it
is interesting to ask yourself, you
know, and and and if you think outside
of the box, sometimes we'll have people
in like the faith space say, "Hey,
I I mean, I'm talking about the Bible or
I'm doing like Bible studies, what
possibly could I do as an affiliate?"
Well, we're like, "Well, one, Daily
Grace Co, which is like journals and
pens and all this other stuff." But then
we're like, "Two, how about Logos Bible
Software?"
And to that exact point, you're like,
"Oh,
that's crazy." Like, yeah, it's a
software that a like maybe a consumer
could use if they just wanted to do a
Bible study or actually a a
professional, in this case like a pastor
at a church, there's that higher level
plan.
That plan can actually get pretty
expensive when you have the entire
pastoral library in this Logos uh Logos
Bible Software.
So, when you find the right thing that's
a good fit, you could really go deep on
that, and then it's not just a
percentage of that software, the one
time someone invests, you might actually
build up an audience that is sticking
with it for months, even years, and then
that becomes reoccurring revenue every
single month.
Yeah. Yeah, totally makes sense. And you
know, you you threw out the massive
number of 18,000 to 25,000 a month, but
even if we were 10% of your audience
size, that's 1,800 to 2,500 a month,
right? 1% of the size, 1% of the
conversions, and that's 180 to 250 bucks
every single month. And the way I kind
of think about everything you were
describing is
if we were just doing
let's say an affiliate sale for a raised
garden bed. I need to make a sale to
make money. Like it is a one-to-one
conversion. One new customer generated
equals X number of dollars that I'm
generating, whereas with this, you know,
software, being an affiliate for
software as a service or any of these
different companies you mentioned,
I can get five affiliate commissions
today, and then next month, if I do no
extra work, as long as those people
stick around and stay, you know, paying
subscribers to that company, I'm getting
that same five
affiliate commissions next month. And if
I do another video the following month,
now I have three more people so now I'm
at eight. And then a couple people stop
the subscription, but I'm still at six,
right? And so I I totally can see how
that would, you know, really spiral and
how that can really snowball in in the
positive direction. So that that makes
sense. Now, earlier you mentioned the
idea of like different niches have
different RPMs. That's something that
I've never actually really even
considered on YouTube, but it makes
sense because YouTube is selling the
attention that our videos are getting to
advertisers. And not every customer is
created equal.
A 16-year-old watching a Roblox video is
probably going to be spending a lot less
money on YouTube than a 35-year-old who
is watching financial investing tips
YouTube videos. So can you tell me a
little bit more about that? And then
also, are there any niches that are just
known for having really high RPMs or
paying really well or the inverse like
niches that you're like, "Hey, I I might
stay away from that if I was you because
it was a
kind of low low RPM niche."
Yeah, so this is a great question and I
came prepared so I have a few notes.
So let's look at a couple different
tiers. So again, RPM
is revenue per mill, which
in my opinion it's like they just try to
make it as confusing as possible.
They're like, "That's the Roman term for
a thousand views." And you're like, "Why
are we talking about 2,000 years ago
terms?" You know, how about RPT? Like
revenue per thousand or something. But
it it's So, how much money does YouTube
pay you if your views get if your videos
get a thousand views? Now, the key is
kind of a footnote that it means
monetizable views. There's like such a
thing as ad blocker. There could be
different things that are taking place.
It's like assuming the ad plays. So,
it's not necessarily always super
linear. Like, I got a thousand views,
but this is how much I earned. But, it
gives you some clarity. So, to earn
anywhere between one to five dollars per
a thousand views, a one to five dollar
RPM, that's like gaming, vlogs, reaction
content, comedy, entertainment. Usually
the most broad appeal stuff.
Because it's also it's there could be a
lot of really good customers in that
pool, but there also could be a lot of
very casual people. Like, to your point,
17-year-olds. Like, so it's usually
lower when it's the most viral broad
appeal type of topics. Makes sense.
>> You want to step up to
five to twelve dollar RPM, travel, food,
fitness, tech reviews, DIY. This is a
good medium level. Travel can and food
can still be in fitness very broad, but
higher. Like, serious people cuz then
the mindset here is also thinking about
who are advertisers advertising to. If
people are thinking about travel at this
point now, they're not just a generic
audience. They might be buying plane
tickets. They might be in buying dinner
reservations.
Tech reviews are actually buying tech.
Then you step up to let's say twelve to
twenty-five dollar RPM. This is very
high. Real estate.
Makes sense. What's a real estate lead
worth if they're getting a loan or what
is a real estate transaction worth?
Software tutorials, small business home
office. But, there's a higher level. You
could go twenty-five dollars to forty
dollar RPMs per a thousand views
for digital marketing, some AI stuff,
B2B tools,
coaching, high ticket offers. And you
said, is there any really high, you
know, niches? Another one is medical.
Mhm. And if you think about it,
um another lens is what type of audience
is most prone to watch this? You
mentioned earlier 17-year-old.
Now, 17-year-olds have buying power,
actually, no doubt. And they have access
to maybe parents' funds or credit cards
still, potentially. But let's do a
comparison between the 17-year-old
and the baby boomer
that is looking for, let's say, one a
fi- a financial planner to help them
manage a million or two million or three
million dollars in retirement and to get
the best returns.
And that financial planner is going to
earn a 1.5% commission on those dollars.
What's that What's What's crazy? Like,
what would they pay
to acquire a customer that's a baby
boomer with, you know, 1 to 3 million
dollars in assets to manage? Same thing,
what would you pay to get in front of a
customer that's maybe Gen X or a baby
boomer that is dealing with some health
challenges? That's looking for expensive
medical treatments, hospitals, different
things like that. This is just the
thinking. It's like, okay, that makes
sense. There's a teenager,
you know, scrolling on entertainment, uh
rap videos and Minecraft stuff versus
that individual that has buying power,
that's in a certain season of life. And
then you just kind of take a step back.
Yeah, so what are they watching? You
know, what are they clicking on? Um B2B
content or business content? I mean, I
would like our two channels have higher
RPMs when if we teach how to make money
or how to get leads, you probably you
broaden out a little bit if you talk
about just how to grow on social
versus maybe social media for I actually
speak a lot to real estate agents. And
it's much smaller numbers, but much
higher earning in terms of RPMs, which
is not the main thing I'm after, but
even that content Here Here's a way to
summarize it. What you even call out in
the title,
things you might name in the video,
again, if you were to call out,
you know, helping women thrive in their
40s or helping women thrive in their
50s, they're at an economic place and
what are they investing in? They're
buying red light therapy masks
for 350 to 750 dollars.
And if I'm an advertiser, I don't want
to advertise that mask to an 18-year-old
male or female. They're probably not
interested. They're not at a point where
they're thinking about anti-aging, you
know, etc. So, that is
a smart thing to think through and can
really inform the strategy for listeners
going ahead. Not that you necessarily
need to change your niche or your
business positioning. The cool thing on
YouTube is it could inform some topics
that it might either give you more
energy to talk about or you go,
"Actually, that's smart. I could do a
whole series
on a particular topic that would attract
a particular type of audience and that
could be a a good source of impact as
well as income for my online business
because I'm thinking through
the type of audience that would be
watching. Got you. Makes sense. It
sounds like it is probably an
oversimplification, but there's almost
like an inverse relationship between
viral potential and RPM. So, like if I'm
imagining like a a
video that's breaking down investment
tips for baby boomers who are preparing
for retirement, there's probably not a
billion viewers on the planet who are
going to be interested in watching that
video, but if there's, you know, but
along that same sentence, the RPM, the
viewers who are watching that video,
they have a big purchasing power and the
thing that they're going to be
purchasing is a pretty hefty expensive
thing, whereas maybe a a Roblox video or
like a music video or reaction video
might have mega viral potential, but the
the pay per view essentially is going to
be lower. That makes sense. Now, you
mentioned like pivoting niches or you
can do like a series. So, if someone
picked one of these lower RPM niches or
maybe that's just like the the area that
their business is in, are they stuck
there or is there like a way to pivot?
Um that's yeah, that's a great question.
I think
you know, anything is everything is
figureoutable,
but
we also need to not get like overly
romantic about
um
or hopeful. Like hope is not a strategy
in business. So, it would it does it's
not helpful for us to complain to be
like, well, what I want to do is kind of
like lifestyle vlogging on YouTube, but
I want it to pay me what, you know,
video videos targeting baby boomers that
need medical solutions. Like
okay, yeah, I'm sure you I'm sure you
desire that, but like you chose to
position yourself there on YouTube. And
so, I think you know, we we um talk
about this Venn diagram often and it
includes if you drew three circles, that
how your position on YouTube should be
at the intersection of your passion,
your proficiency, and then profit. And
so, there is a level of when you're
picking your niche, your topic, you want
to do something you're passionate about.
And if you should also ask yourself,
what are we solving for? Are we also
solving for passion? Like money's kind
of secondary, but like I'm very I you
know, I want to build a community. This
is what I want to talk about it. If I
can make money, great. But like that's
not necessarily what I'm solving for.
Passion is that first lens. Proficiency
then, what am I really good at and what
would um give me longevity? What could I
commit to for a few years? But then
there's the profit P and that is asking
the the
how profitable is this niche? What are
the types of business things that I
could do in this? Um of course, if
you're Jacqueline, many people don't
know the Wild Floridian, the gardener,
there actually is affiliate
opportunities that could take what you
feel like isn't super monetizable and
earn you 50k. Like, you know, that
sounds wild, but she's shooting on her
smartphone. It took a couple years to
do, but that's real in almost any niche.
So, it's like there's ways to do it.
However,
um when you really think about profit,
if you found yourself at a crossroads,
right? And maybe this is the test.
You're like, I'm really passionate about
educating people on online business and
how to make money online, and I'm also
really passionate about snowboarding,
something you're really passionate
about, right?
That Building up a snowboarding channel
could be lucrative. Probably could start
calling, you know, if you're vlogging,
maybe you're taking people through tours
of of different resorts, and they might
start giving you free lift tickets.
Maybe if you got big enough, they might
pay you to fly out. You could do
affiliate deals for, you know, boards.
It could be a lucrative thing. But it's
going to be kind of at that mid-tier.
And so, what are we solving for? If you
were solving for I want to build a
seven-figure business, it's choosing at
the beginning
what boat you're in. And
to that point, in alignment with
some people shouldn't start the
snowboard channel because they're going
to catch an edge. They don't even have
the skill or the opportunity to travel
around America and maybe cover all the
resorts, depending on the model. So, I
know I throw a lot out there. I think um
I wouldn't answer the question
necessarily in a binary way. You can
always pivot your niche. Today could
always be the day where you maybe
reorient what is your note North Star
and where are you heading? It's a kind
of a good question to ask. What is it
you want to happen? Are we solving for a
six-figure a year uh YouTube channel?
It might mean, if that is absolutely one
of the top priorities, it actually might
that out of three different
positionings, three different topics you
were going to choose, you're choosing
one where you're like, "It's not really
my number one for passion, but I'm still
super passionate about it. I do have
some years and some experience on it,
and people have acknowledged that yeah,
I could help them. I'm I'm a few steps
ahead, but also this it would be the
most lucrative opportunity. And yeah,
I'm on a mission cuz I want to retire my
partner. I want them to go part-time. I
want to go part-time." Then that becomes
your framework for making a decision of
of of making a pivot on your channel.
And you absolutely can always any day is
a good day to think about your future,
think about your goals, and maybe think
about where's my current trajectory
taking me?
It might be hard, it might be a little
bit painful to rebrand or pivot, but
it's okay to do, and I'm making that
decision in an informed way, a strategic
way, and a reflective, thoughtful way
based on my current target. Are you
ready to take your business's marketing
to the next level? Meet Brevo, the
all-in-one marketing and CRM platform
that's designed to help you connect with
customers, boost engagement, and grow
your business smarter. With Brevo, you
can manage all of your customer
interactions in one place, nurture leads
with their built-in CRM, reach your
audience through email and SMS, and keep
them coming back with powerful
automations. But here's where it gets
really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI
assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter
campaigns by suggesting personalized
content, optimizing send times, and even
analyzing performance data to improve
your strategy in real time. It's like
having a marketing expert on your team
who works 24/7. And of course, Brevo
also offers advanced analytics, seamless
integrations, and AI-driven
personalization. Everything that you
need to create multi-channel campaigns
that hit the mark every single time. Get
started for free today, or use code
tribe50 to save 50% off their starter
and standard plans for the first 3
months of the annual subscription. Just
head to www.brevo.com/tribe
and take your marketing further with
Brevo and Aura. Got you. Let's dig
deeper then into this this money-making.
Let's say that we're at the crossroads
and we're we're kind of doing what you
were just saying. Like, I found
something that I've been doing for a few
years, so I'm proficient in it. I'm
passionate about it. I care about it. It
might not be like my my life's mission,
but I'm passionate about it. But like my
primary goal is the profit, the income.
Okay, I want to drive revenue through my
YouTube channel. I want to build the
seven-figure business through through
YouTube. Uh
You mentioned earlier this this
Wild Flordian channel. She's posting
maybe a couple videos a year that have
the specific intent of ranking high and
answering the question of, you know,
what raised garden bed is best or
comparing this raised garden bed to that
one. And these are affiliate driving
episodes. If my goal was primarily
building revenue, profit, income,
how often should I be posting videos
that have a primary intent of of driving
people to an affiliate link or making a
sale?
Yeah, I mean, it's a good question. And
um there's a lot of different,
you know, theories or or philosophies on
this.
I mean, I'll tell you I think there's
two big mindsets. Sometimes what people
say when you're starting online, I never
forget I sat down with Lewis Howes years
ago. Might have even been 10 years ago
now.
And he talked about starting the School
of Greatness podcast. And he said, you
know what? And we're talking about, you
know, if you were going to start a brand
from scratch. And he said, hold off
monetiz- hold off on monetizing for as
long as possible.
Basically, hold off on like asking your
audience to do something, you know,
or or taking from your audience as long
as possible.
Okay, that's one point of view, but I
also think that it's maybe in a way a
flawed perspective.
Meaning, like
I don't want to take anything from my
audience ever, you know, and I don't
like I like that's and that's not maybe
exactly what Louis said, you know, great
guy friend, but it's like
it's it's like I don't know that you
need to hold off on monetization. It
depends on how you do it, you know, and
where you do it and it's back to that
idea that if the very first video you
ever uploaded on your YouTube channel
was about three supplements you should
take for more energy, then you're not
taking anything. You're actually giving
value. Mhm. And I'm I'm a big believer
that your income is correlated to the
amount of value you add to the
marketplace.
So, what do I do personally or what
would I do today? I mean, personally I
would I would give a call to action in
every single video. That's what I do.
And we have multiple different formats.
Now, when I say we, I started like
anybody, right? I started by myself and
videos on a low-cost camera editing it
myself.
It's grown into we have multiple
different content creators that create a
variety of content across a couple
different YouTube channels now. It's
wild that YouTube could even turn into
that and
um
and so it's like
I think of and I think audiences have
matured because Brock, let's talk about
it. Can you think of any influential
podcast, video podcast
that doesn't have like an ad spot in it?
Most of them have brand deal spots.
>> Yeah. 100%
>> Like 100% of them do all the time. Yeah,
can't think of one.
Yeah, it's like it's and so now it's
like there's sort of been a shift and I
you could look at um, you know, there's
a character named Alex Hormozi that's
pretty well known and I think one of the
things you know, he often said was like
I have nothing to sell you. And he said
that for a couple years
while selling his book. Ironically, it
was actually interesting. I mean, it was
only 99 cents, but like literally I have
nothing to sell you except a book that I
want to sell you and people would buy it
physically, whatever. Respect to Alex.
It was a big deal. He didn't go for like
that as Gary Vaynerchuk would say jab
jab jab right hook. It was like the
delay of the right hook. Totally cool.
Okay, you're building your brand. Flip
side, it's like for most people
um why not educate your audience about
valuable things that can help them on
day one? That's what I would lean
towards. And so then backfilling that a
little bit, I go into every episode just
asking myself, what would be or could be
the relevant call to action of this
video.
And in some cases, again, you might have
nothing to sell and no affiliate video
no affiliate offer comes to mind. I
still think you should from day one be
uh in a way almost warming your audience
up to always be taking action on
something, even if that's like, "Hey, so
I hope you got value out of this video
and subscribe." There's a call to action
for the next one.
And then as you get more sophisticated,
you might say, "Hey, I hope you got
value, you know, today."
By the way, if you want to go deeper, I
have a free checklist that solves a
problem a problem or a free resource.
Now you're building your email list. And
for those
very your audience is very familiar with
this, you still might be like, "Hey, I
don't have an offer yet."
Okay, build your like build your email
list while you're figuring it out. Build
your email list and maybe someday you
could email them about an affiliate
offer. But even if you don't have that,
it's like you're giving a chance to
build an email list that later you might
present something.
And then more directly,
maybe you do write a book. And
eventually, you know, I wrote a book
called YouTube Secrets.
Um and it would make a lot of sense. And
by the way, if you enjoyed this video, I
actually wrote a book. It's also
available on Auto Audible. It's called
YouTube Secrets. That you give a call to
action to that. It could be very
relaxed. That's not a high-pressure
sale. I think to a lot of times think of
sales as education.
You're giving free valuable education
away on YouTube. And then you're also
educating your audience about an
opportunity to get even more value.
And that could be something free,
something paid, an affiliate offer,
something of your own.
And so, Brock, maybe an interesting
opinion, I get both I get the tension of
both arguments. Yes, you could hold off
and yes, build your brand first or build
your influence first. Great. But, I
actually don't see any problem from
honestly selling
selling from day one or making offers
from day one. I think it's more about
the vibe of how you're doing it. It's
kind of more about the expectation of of
the audience. Um and it mid vlog it
might be kind of weird to just start
saying something. But, this is all
strategic questions or you know, mid
vlog that's totally unrelated. That's a
vibe you you get to control your brand.
You get to control um what feels weird
or what is like super chill and just
educational. I think the mindset is
yeah, from day one
add value and from day one build your
business. Yeah, makes sense. Totally
makes sense. You know, to to use the you
brought up Hormozi. I was thinking about
this.
If we're going back to that earlier
topic of like, you know, we're at that
crossroads or we pursuing passion or or
the thing we're really knowledgeable
about or or the building the profit and
making an income.
He already had a very successful
business, multiple very successful
businesses at the time and so he didn't
need to sell a course on marketing. He
didn't need to necessarily sell
you know,
a membership or an academy or anything
like that. He had other uh revenue
streams that he didn't need to rely on
and so he was able to build his personal
brand around this idea of I have nothing
to sell you while we understand he was
selling something, but with this kind of
tagline along the way. So, that that
totally makes sense. Um and I definitely
I definitely understand both sides. I
definitely tend to agree with you, which
is like you can monetize from day one.
You can start air quotes selling from
day one, but I love the way you reframe
this and that it's it's serving people,
right? You're just answering their
questions. You're educating them. You're
helping them. You're not taking from
them. You're giving them the knowledge
and the resources and the
recommendations that they've basically
asked for through their YouTube and
Google searches that ended up allowing
them to find your videos.
So, with all this being said, if
someone's listening today and they're
like
Okay, but YouTube isn't it like a slog?
Isn't it just another platform like
Instagram's been a pain in my ass and
I've been following all Brock's tips,
but I'm still struggling on Instagram.
So, Sean, why should I listen to you?
Like why should I consider starting or
restarting or going all in on YouTube?
Yeah, I mean it's a good question and I
do think
that
big idea number one
uh
you could do YouTube successfully in
five or less hours a week.
Now, that's not nothing. We're busy.
We all
one, 100% of listeners, you know, if we
challenged you, could find five hours if
we had to.
And at the same time, I mean like right
now I'm a dad of a three-year-old and a
five-year-old and running a business and
stuff. Also, at the same time,
whether that's rest, whether that's, you
know, family time, yeah, time is
precious.
So, that's not nothing, but that's also
not crazy. And so, I think
you know, it's such a great book called
Atomic Habits and it's got the quote,
"We don't rise to the level of our
goals, we fall to the level of our
systems."
I think success on YouTube is about
keeping it simple, defining, you know,
our targets, creating a simple strategy,
and then having habits and routines
weekly
for five or less hours
to consistently put out some content
that would map towards like one
strategic video, long-form video a week,
and then committing to doing that over
the the long haul. So, I think
it can be done. It's possible. Think
systems, not hustle.
But I think it's probably better if we
also zoom out and
consider the ROI. Because it's like if
If have a strong enough why,
you could you'll figure out the how.
And you'll make time for it.
So,
you just got to ask yourself what what's
your big dream? You know, where do you
want to be in the next 1 year, in 5
years?
How much does your mission matter to
you?
Your business?
How passionate are you about your
products, if you have products or
services, and how they could transform
people's lives?
And you know, do you want to reach more
people with those?
How defensible do you want your brand to
be?
Marcus Sheridan said, "In the next 5 to
10 years, your YouTube channel is going
to be more valuable to your brand than a
website. It's going to be more important
than a website." Might already be true.
That like your your If you're taking
your personal brand seriously, having a
powerful presence on YouTube is maybe
the peak of personal branding.
That the And you'll see this even as
people start on TikTok,
and they they see like I started on
TikTok, I got big,
but like I want to turn professional and
actually have a YouTube presence. And it
doesn't invalidate the TikTok. Like
TikTokers think that way. They're like,
"Yeah, I want to I would love to get
And we are seeing that YouTube is the
town square of the internet. It's being
watched in more American living rooms
than Netflix, Amazon Prime, Hulu,
um YouTube earns more ad revenue than
like Disney and
Paramount combined. Like all these other
Hollywood studios, YouTube is now like
the kingpin of media, and it's
accessible to everybody that wants to
jump in the game. So, if you get a
strong enough why and you think this is
going to take work, and it's going to
take consistency, but if I reverse
engineer back from where I want my brand
to be, my personal brand to be,
and and so that's when
when I keep the the the powerful reasons
uh reasons come first, results come
second. And when I keep those strong
reasons in front of me, I think, "Man,
what's the impact I want to make? The
email list I want to build. The revenue
I want to create."
I then get up and I'm like, "Ah, I don't
feel like filming today." I remember the
reasons. Okay, I'm going to film. You
know, it's like, "I I don't feel like
And and I'm investing, I'm planting in
this for the long haul, and this is
going to be a compound thing. And anyone
who's built a powerful media brand, and
that's probably not everybody's desire
here. And by the way, you don't have to
go to that scale if you want like a few
more leads and some more conversions and
stuff. You might have you determine
where YouTube uh is at on your um you
know, priority list. But man, if you
want to build like a a powerful brand,
or even just be a the go-to authority in
a smaller niche, which is so possible,
you know, with a different You don't
need 100,000 subscribers. A A 5 to
10,000 subscriber YouTube channel is
like a very authoritative thing.
We have We help a lot of real estate
agents do that. When you have a 5,000
subscribers as a real estate agent,
1,500,
the stats actually from National
Association of Realtors revealed that,
that the trust that goes up from the
consumer that expects the real estate
agent to be there, that if they have
listing videos, that only 9 out of 10
agents even have those, and that the
amount of conversions that go up, it's
just having like a powerful presence on
YouTube. So, I know I'm throwing a lot
out there. It's like, really get clear
on the reasons. Cuz Brock, I'll I'll hit
you with the counter. Some people, you
know, "Sean, why should I do YouTube?"
Maybe you shouldn't. I mean, you're
busy. You already got a lot of stuff to
do. Count the cost. I think you should,
but it's like it is count the cost. It's
not going to have to take over your
whole week, but it's going to take a few
hours a week to do YouTube well. If you
do it, I think it's worth it. Reverse
engineer back from your goals, get a
simple system, and
uh then go for it. I love it. Awesome.
Sean, thank you so much for being here.
We will link up the YouTube Growth
Sprint down in the description below,
but appreciate your time and your
expertise.
Thank you, Brock.
If you've made it to this point in the
video, that means clearly you like
something, and hopefully you learned
something. Don't forget to hit that
thumbs up button. Hit the subscribe
button so you can get served with more
content just like this. And don't forget
to click the link down in the
description below to learn more about
Sean's upcoming YouTube Growth Sprint.